README.md, before:

iQueTool
========

```
iQueTool 0.2: iQue Player file manipulator
Usage  : iquetool.exe [mode] [parameters] [filepath]

Valid modes: nand / tickets / certs / crl / sparefix

General parameters:
   -h (-help) - print iquetool usage
   -i (-info) - print basic info about file
   -wi (-writeinfo) - write detailed info about file to [filepath].txt
   -o (-output) <output-path> - specify output filename/directory

Mode "tickets" / "certs" / "crl":

   -x - extracts all entries from file
   -xi (-extractids) <comma-delimited-ids> - extract entries with these indexes
   -xc (-extractcids) <comma-delimited-cids> - extract entries with these content ids
   -xt (-extracttids) <comma-delimited-tids> - extract entries with these ticket ids

   -n - writes extracted entries into a single array file

Note that by default the extract commands above will extract tickets as seperate files
with the format <output-dir>\ticket-<bbid>-<contentid>-<tid>.dat

Mode "nand":

   -x - extracts all files from NAND
   -xi (-extractids) <comma-delimited-ids> - extract inodes with these indexes
   -xk (-extractkernel) - extract secure-kernel from NAND
   -fs (-showallfs) - shows info about all found FS blocks

   -sc (-skipchecksums) - skip verifying FS checksums
   -bd (-baddump) - will try reading inodes with a 0x10 byte offset

Mode "sparefix":
   usage: sparefix [spare.bin path] <nand.bin path>
   fixes overdump / raw page-spare dumps to match BB block-spare dumps
   if nand.bin path is specified, will recalc ECC from that nand

   -o (-output) <output-path> - specify output filename (default: [input]_fixed)

iQue signature verification:
   To enable, drop a cert.sys file (taken from an iQue NAND) next to the iQueTool exe
   Alternatively you can put it at the root of your D: drive
   Also when opening a NAND image the cert.sys will automatically be loaded from it, if not already found locally
```

Commit message:

nand: add -gs option to generate a new spare.bin based on the input nand
-gp option can also be given to generate a page-spare instead of a block-spare (for use with HW flashers)
>iQueTool nand -gs spare_new.bin -gp input_nand.bin

Generated spares seem to match up with dumped spares almost perfect, though most dumped spares seem to have extra blocks marked for the SA.
AFAIK they shouldn't actually need to be marked, so I'm guessing those are just from an earlier SA version.

'sparefix' is still left in for people to fix up an existing spare.bin, or reduce a page-spare to a block-spare.
Code for it has been mostly moved from Program.cs to iQueNand.cs.

README.md, after:

iQueTool
========

```
iQueTool 0.2a: iQue Player file manipulator
Usage  : iquetool.exe [mode] [parameters] [filepath]

Valid modes: nand / tickets / certs / crl / sparefix

General parameters:
   -h (-help) - print iquetool usage
   -i (-info) - print basic info about file
   -wi (-writeinfo) - write detailed info about file to [filepath].txt
   -o (-output) <output-path> - specify output filename/directory

Mode "tickets" / "certs" / "crl":

   -x - extracts all entries from file
   -xi (-extractids) <comma-delimited-ids> - extract entries with these indexes
   -xc (-extractcids) <comma-delimited-cids> - extract entries with these content ids
   -xt (-extracttids) <comma-delimited-tids> - extract entries with these ticket ids

   -n - writes extracted entries into a single array file

Note that by default the extract commands above will extract tickets as seperate files
with the format <output-dir>\ticket-<bbid>-<contentid>-<tid>.dat

Mode "nand":

   -x - extracts all files from NAND
   -xi (-extractids) <comma-delimited-ids> - extract inodes with these indexes
   -xk (-extractkernel) - extract secure-kernel from NAND
   -fs (-showallfs) - shows info about all found FS blocks

   -gs (-genspare) <dest-spare.bin-path> - generates block-spare/ECC data for this NAND
   -gp (-fullspare) - will generate page-spare/ECC data (0x20 pages per block) instead

   -sc (-skipchecksums) - skip verifying FS checksums
   -bd (-baddump) - will try reading inodes with a 0x10 byte offset

Mode "sparefix":
   usage: sparefix [spare.bin path] <nand.bin path>
   fixes overdump / raw page-spare dumps to match BB block-spare dumps
   if nand.bin path is specified, will correct the spare data using that nand

   -o (-output) <output-path> - specify output filename (default: [input]_fixed)
   -gp (-fullspare) - disables reducing page-spare data to block-spare

iQue signature verification:
   To enable, drop a cert.sys file (taken from an iQue NAND) next to the iQueTool exe
   Alternatively you can put it at the root of your D: drive
   Also when opening a NAND image the cert.sys will automatically be loaded from it, if not already found locally
```
